meeting notes 20200923
Jamila Dozier

 - Prices are standard, since background work is intense
    - Doesn't want finance to be a concern if resources are inaccessible (will talk through it)


My issues to bring up:

There are a lot of people whose hearts are in the right place and want to help --- but they're not professionals. That's why we're looking into consulting.

There are even more people (in the department, and in STEM) who will think these actions don't affect them and they can stay distanced from the issue. We need options.

One current issue is bureaucratic in nature: the department chair sometimes feels that our hands are tied and nothing can be done. I'd like to change this mindset toward something like "we need to challenge a higher authority".


Repairwork around title IX and racial response?


Ideal department environment:

I'd like to be able to brag about how well the department handles issues like this, and I want my peers to share that feeling. I'd like for us to be the example that other groups use as "They're doing it right".


Her approach:
Climate assessment: overall survey could be incentivized
interviews with BIPOC in the department - to understand what the current climate is for people of color specifically
group dialogue around equity work and what it looks like beyond racial equity --- gender, ability
Recruitment and longer term plan for supporting the minority students when they get there
training series to do the basic 101 definitions, then moving into implicit bias and understanding how we as individuals can advance equity. Creatively storm policies and procedures to ensure there is accountability in this work.
Everything she does is tailored to who she's working with: spend time getting to know people before coming up with a game plan is a must.

Rates:

Need to know what the timeline would be, what budget we have available. Equity work is often an afterthought --- usually not built into budgets.

Budget --- get back to her about it. She could come to a DEI meeting.


