Renato - A lot starts at levels before college. Section 7 --- high school and below, systemic social issues. Action in the department: undergraduate majors in Astro / Physics have a high barrier for entry coming into college. Inherently linked to a racial and financial barrier because there is inequality in education at lower levels. How is our major configured? How can this be addressed to be made more accessible?

Phil - Agree. Main thing: you have to already have had calculus coming in. Very ifficult 1700 classes in your first year, not much mentoring of first year students available. What happens if people don't have the background? Weeding people out. Transfer students have the same problem. To graduate a transfer student in Astro is a bit rare --- difficult to have taken all the classes before they get here. Tend to struggle in the last two years.

How do we talk to physics or get a new program in place that could have a gentler first year, for people that don't know what they want to do yet?

Renato - Does the Astro program *have* to st, including the zoom linkart with what physics has, and build on it? Want to talk with Physics and develop curriculum that's more independent, possibly. 

Phil - We do have a BA major, but it doesn't point people toward graduate school. Could break off from Physics and have our own BS major. 

Borja - Must identify really what the issue is. If we misunderstand, we wouldn't come up with the right answer. Incredibly important to accurately identify the issue. Tricky.

David - Since this begins in early education, people will get put off of it for various reasons. A lot of things factor into how well-prepared you are, which depends sensitively on your background. Is it better to prepare students coming in to college, or adapt our requirements to their current level of preparedness?
  Ex: getting elementary students to not be afraid of math.
What is the best place to spend our resources?

Renato - The direct thing to do is address our own curriculum. Reopen or open a dialogue with the physics department as to why their curriculum is the way it is. How much have they considered these issues in the development of their curriculum? We have these concerns about how it may be implicitly discriminatory. Encourage a continued development of that curriculum. 

Phil - In faculty meetings: there is a person in charge of undergrad curriculum changes. Our DUP talks to them and figures out what changes. Maybe room for an alternate track outside of the 1700 series. We *don't* want them to go off on their own, and then report the result to us. 

Renato - We should be looking into what the DEI efforts in the Physics department are taking.

Phil - If they're weeding out in the first year, that's the opposite of what we want, and it undoes the progress made by removing the PGRE from the application requirements. 

Renato - Passive process, since we look toward Physics for precedent. Is there an opportunity to participate in the early discussions? Do we get to sit at the table for these decisions?


What are our responsibilities as career scientists?



